# Methodology Review Comments: [wattcarbon/open-eac-alliance#2](https://github.com/wattcarbon/open-eac-alliance/pull/2)

**Title**: Small scale self-consumed solar methodology, by PeerCo
**Author(s)**: Pierre-VF
**Created**: 2024-06-07
**Approved**: 2024-11-04


## Code Review Comments

* File `PeerCo/small_scale_self_consumed_solar.md`, (Outdated):
  ```
  PV production data shall be acquired via automatic digital communication to PeerCo's cloud once the project is established. However, in the initial phase of setting up a project (qualifying the site, its data and quantifying the benefits of the scheme), offline extractions of the data in an open format (which may be CSV, XLSX, etc.) may be accepted.
  ```
  * mattwc-openeac, 2024-07-03 12:55:38:
    Since the method is meant to be general, we could say that the data needs to be made available to multiple via a certain format but not declare where it should be stored. 
    * Pierre-VF, 2024-07-05 15:40:41:
      Here's where we had some uncertainty about how much the approach consists in disclosing one's own methodology (i.e. with the details of one's context) versus making it generic for anyone to use. We therefore chose the first approach (also made further visible by the use of a "PeerCo" folder), which implied that we'd specify PeerCo's cloud. I can however see that your vision differs on this, which makes it worth bringing this up in the Steering Committee 
    * mollywebbtech, 2024-07-08 11:54:44:
      Agree that we should discuss in the steering group meeting.

* File `PeerCo/small_scale_self_consumed_solar.md`, (Outdated):
  ```
  1. the maximum PV generation is in line with the PV asset's nominal rating,
  ```
  * mattwc-openeac, 2024-07-03 12:56:38:
    I love this QA / QC requirement. 

* File `PeerCo/small_scale_self_consumed_solar.md`, (Outdated):
  ```
  | Germany, Nigeria, Portugal, Spain, South-Africa, Switzerland | [ElectricityMaps API](https://www.electricitymaps.com/) |
  ```
  * mattwc-openeac, 2024-07-03 12:58:41:
    We can add the EIA for the US
    * nicholasburgess-eac, 2024-07-03 13:45:14:
      I'm not sure we should be specifying particular data sources. Think we should just define the requirements these data sources need to meet. 
    * Pierre-VF, 2024-07-05 15:26:33:
      I agree that this would make the method easier to scale to new countries without amending.  I proposed an update of this in a [new commit](https://github.com/wattcarbon/WEATS/pull/2/commits/9f744107114b5fd7480606b5690cd94802700b37).  @mattwc-openeac - happy to add the EIA if you provide me the link to that dataset.
    * mollywebbtech, 2024-07-08 12:05:59:
      agree

* File `PeerCo/small_scale_self_consumed_solar.md`, (Outdated):
  ```
  1. data is not missing more than 5% of the time,
  ```
  * mattwc-openeac, 2024-07-03 13:03:46:
    Propose adding in a time period, i.e. over a trailing week or month period. 
    * Pierre-VF, 2024-07-05 15:11:12:
      Agreed. I'm adding a "per calendar month" in a [new commit](https://github.com/wattcarbon/WEATS/pull/2/commits/9f744107114b5fd7480606b5690cd94802700b37).

* File `PeerCo/small_scale_self_consumed_solar.md`, (Outdated):
  ```
  **Sectoral scope**:  *Energy / Energy Distribution / Energy Demand / Carbon Capture and Storage*
  ```
  * nicholasburgess-eac, 2024-07-03 13:13:10:
    Is CCS an appropriate Sectoral Scope for solar self consumption? Is this referencing a particular/well known methodology for scope? 
    * mollywebbtech, 2024-07-08 11:57:31:
      This was from a sectoral scope linked to the carbon market / clean development mechanism methodologies we based this on. We can remove sectoral scope if it isn't relevant or remove CCS specifically
    * Pierre-VF, 2024-07-09 11:27:48:
      CCS is now removed (revision [here](https://github.com/wattcarbon/WEATS/pull/2/commits/9802b6d2f2554e33b5663e2854d2b4785f01813d)) - for the general relevance of the sectoral scope, there is a bigger question whether we want to have it in all methodologies or whether it is not regarded as a relevant element by the alliance.

* File `PeerCo/small_scale_self_consumed_solar.md`, (Outdated):
  ```
  **Developed by**: *[PeerCo](www.peerco.earth)*
  ```
  * nicholasburgess-eac, 2024-07-03 13:15:27:
    Let's discuss when development attribution should be stated. My thought is that it makes sense for this early stage where we should have a central champion to answer questions, but eventually we want these to be generic/coming from the EAC Alliance 
    * nicholasburgess-eac, 2024-07-03 13:24:14:
      Sample for once we get there:   "This methodology was developed by the Technical Committee on Solar Consumption, under the jurisdiction of the Strategic Steering Committee, and has been formally approved by the Technical Committee.   **If needed** This methodology has been developed in compliance with XYZ (Level 10, Green-e etc.) requirements."
    * mollywebbtech, 2024-07-08 12:04:58:
      In the voluntary carbon markets, the people who develop the methodology are paid a small licensing fee of some kind to recover costs of developing the methodology in the first place. In this model, the group that develops and approves this would be compensated. Does the initiating company get some form of 'lead author' or 'initiating company' designation so that any questions can go back to us specifically. Some of the people in the technical committee might be representing their personal views, whereas PeerCo is initiating this as a company. There needs to be a clear distinction or understanding. One to be discussed in the steering committee.  

* File `PeerCo/small_scale_self_consumed_solar.md`, (Outdated):
  ```
  This methodology for measurements and verification of self-consumed small scale solar generation on a given site. The purpose of this methodology is to generate environmental attributes from this solar energy, which can then be used in reporting or traded.
  ```
  * nicholasburgess-eac, 2024-07-03 13:19:49:
    Think we should state explicitly that the purpose is to generate an Environmental Attribute Certificate representing the environmental attributes of the specific generation and consumption (such as location and time) of on-site solar energy. 
    * Pierre-VF, 2024-07-05 15:55:32:
      Agreed. This is addressed in a new version [here](https://github.com/wattcarbon/WEATS/pull/2/commits/2eb7885b4d59d7512ca0799044c371f3e73b0e5e)

* File `PeerCo/small_scale_self_consumed_solar.md`, (Outdated):
  ```
  **Emission intensity** (or *carbon intensity*) is a measure of how clean grid electricity is. It refers to how many grams of carbon dioxide equivalent (gCO2e) are released to produce a kilowatt hour (kWh) of electricity. In this methodology, an *average* measure of this factor *on the demand side* is considered at every point in time, meaning that this number reflects the carbon intensity of the *average kilowatt-hour consumed* in a given time period.
  ```
  * nicholasburgess-eac, 2024-07-03 13:28:57:
    Can we define demand side here? Also point in time, aka hourly?  "Average kilowatt-hour consumed" in a grid subregion?  In a balancing region? 
    * Pierre-VF, 2024-07-05 16:20:25:
      Addressed [here](https://github.com/wattcarbon/WEATS/pull/2/commits/f415c3ffa14e9a597fb65ed77b6d0f1baaa99ac6). We deliberately kept flexibility for the zone definition as this fundamentally depends on the geography and the data (e.g. emission intensity data) available. However, I added a requirement to disclose this choice at EAC level. 

* File `PeerCo/small_scale_self_consumed_solar.md`, (Outdated):
  ```
  3. generation is measured by a digital meter with hourly (or sub-hourly) resolution whose data can be communicated automatically by digital means
  ```
  * nicholasburgess-eac, 2024-07-03 13:31:21:
    Open to discussion, but why does the data need to be communicated automatically by digital means? Could imagine a solar system which stores hourly data but is read manually each month
    * mollywebbtech, 2024-07-08 12:07:23:
      Agreed we should be able to have a way to not have full technical integration if this becomes a huge cost/barrier. Verification would therefore need to be robust enough to not allow 'gaming' of the spreadsheet that is read manually. 
    * Pierre-VF, 2024-07-09 11:59:44:
      Agreed, automatic data communication can be a barrier which we don't want to have. 'Gaming' is in practice as much of a concern for automatic communication as it is with spreadsheet (unless a trusted 3rd party API is used - e.g. with large established inverter manufacturers where the extra context provides extra robustness).  I've addressed this [here](https://github.com/wattcarbon/WEATS/pull/2/commits/bf8e11ea6060a59e7b3c6e17d97b6ecce1c99bee) and [here](https://github.com/wattcarbon/WEATS/pull/2/commits/aecf305c34763ba4c716d0709dc8c6dc36b4aec7), where I also added a requirement on metering of the site demand and export (so we're sure to not include the exported fraction in our EACs)

* File `PeerCo/small_scale_self_consumed_solar.md`, (Outdated):
  ```
  b. location of the installation (address, or GPS coordinates if an address is not available)
  ```
  * nicholasburgess-eac, 2024-07-03 13:32:40:
    Smart. Maybe require both?  Also, we should state that the address must be complete, and maybe we should put the onus on the asset owner to report the grid and grid subregion e.g. Zone J NYISO 
    * Pierre-VF, 2024-07-05 16:25:47:
      It's easy to retrieve one from the other using an API, so for user practical/convenience reasons we're sticking to one mandatory here.  Regarding the disclosure, I wouldn't put that burden on the asset owner, as (1) not all of these might have that kind of fluency, (2) the choice also depends on the carbon intensity data available for the zone, (3) the zone details might change over time (e.g. geographical granularity becomes better) while we wouldn't want to have to update an agreement with the user if this changes (as the elements disclosed in this list are likely to be part of a written contract with an asset owner, it's good to stay minimal)

* File `PeerCo/small_scale_self_consumed_solar.md`, (Outdated):
  ```
  3. PV arrays are not installed on more than 10% of all buildings in the market of operation
  ```
  * nicholasburgess-eac, 2024-07-03 13:37:46:
    Interesting, why is this?  Also, we should state that that these arrays are not installed on more than 10% of all buildings "during the hours when carbon credits are generated" or similar
    * mollywebbtech, 2024-07-08 12:09:12:
      Again, in the carbon markets there is a goal of not investing in things that are already 'mainstream' but for these Energy Attribute Certificates there are other goals for the certificates (like hourly matching) which means we should remove this. 

* File `PeerCo/small_scale_self_consumed_solar.md`, (Outdated):
  ```
  2. gaps are filled with data whose daily profile and magnitude is consistent with the rest of the asset generation,
  ```
  * ssuffian, 2024-07-03 14:47:04:
    It'd be great to include some guidance on some proposed methods around filling those gaps!
    * mollywebbtech, 2024-07-08 12:11:05:
      There will be different methods depending on how the gaps appear. How detailed should this methodology get in defined the acceptable methods or is this up to the verification party?
    * Pierre-VF, 2024-07-08 13:34:08:
      My thought at this stage further to Stephen's input was to propose a few options in appendix. I just haven't written them in there yet. What is clear to me is that we need to restrict to 'explainable' methods (i.e. blackbox AI is a no-go) for accountability reasons.  @ssuffian - if you guys have some specific ones already, I'm happy to reference them here too. Probably not down to code details, but a reasonably sharp method description allowing to reproduce and assess specifically enough.


## General Comments

* Pierre-VF, 2024-11-04 09:16:01:
  @mattwc-openeac & @ssuffian : FYI, I've now added an M&V plan template in appendix 3 following the workstream call. Let me know if you see anything requiring adjustment in there 
